96 write a report process perspective (#104)
Itu-DevOps-2026/ITU-MiniTwit: report/report.md

---

# Introduction

_Authors: _

# System

## Architecture and Design

_Authors: _

## Dependencies

_Authors: _

## System States

_Authors: _

# Process

## CI/CD

_Authors: Vitus, Frederik_

The CI/CD process is based on GitHub Actions workflows that run on the `main` branch or on a scheduled timer. The MiniTwit repository currently uses the following active workflows to do CI/CD:

- `Static Analysis` — runs on push and pull request events for `main`. It performs:
  - Dockerfile linting with Hadolint against `Dockerfile-MiniTwit`.
  - .NET setup and tool restore.
  - C# formatting validation with `dotnet csharpier check .`.
  - CodeQL initialization for C#.
  - Dependency restore and a strict Roslyn build with `TreatWarningsAsErrors=true`.
  - CodeQL analysis to surface static security issues.
  - Docker Scout scanning for critical vulnerabilities on the DockerHub image.
- `Build and test` — also runs on push and pull request events for `main`. It restores dependencies, performs a clean build, and runs the test suite.

> - `SonarCloud & Codacy` — provide external static analysis, code smell detection, and quality gating on pushes as well.

Author: 'pushes as well',  pushes to where?

## Logging

_Authors: Nikolej_

The system uses a minimal push-based logging stack utilizing Alloy [@alloy_docs], Loki [@loki_docs] and Grafana [@grafana_docs],
focusing on aggregation and visualization rather than analysis.
The Grafana-Loki stack was primarily chosen because it is cheap to run
and for its native support for Grafana, which the existing monitoring system was already using.

Alloy collects logs from running Docker containers through the Docker socket `host = unix:///var/run/docker.sock`,
and populates them with metadata like labels before forwarding to Loki for storage.
Lastly, the logs are queried by Grafana and presented visually.

Our chosen focus on aggregation and visualization is accomplished by grouping logs by containers in Grafana.
The default Grafana Logs Drilldown page is more than sufficient for this purpose,
hence there are no custom dashboards.

By providing a centralized view of all system logs,
this setup improves observability significantly, allowing easier searching and faster response in case of errors.

Even though the logging setup was used in a limited capacity during development,

> it would be especially useful if for instance the simulation suddenly reports failed requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it proved to be especially useful if for instance the simulation suddenly reports failed requests.
```

Specifically, we replaced standard Grafana, Prometheus, and ASP.NET images with hardened variants from dhi.io.
These images are designed to reduce attack surfaces by minimizing unnecessary packages and dependencies.

**Container execution.**
Beyond changing base images, we further hardened container execution.
For example, Grafana was configured to run as a non-root user instead of running with root privileges.  
We also introduced initialization steps to ensure correct permissions on mounted volumes without granting unnecessary privileges to the running application containers.

A key lesson from the course was that security should not rely on a single mechanism.
Therefore, our approach combined multiple layers of protection: encrypted communication through TLS, restricted network access through firewalls, automated vulnerability scanning in CI/CD, hardened container images, and safer runtime configurations.
This follows a defense-in-depth strategy, where multiple independent security mechanisms reduce the likelihood that a single vulnerability compromises the entire system.

## Availability and Scaling

_Authors: Frederik_

> To increase availability of the system a simple load balancing setup has been made. This can also be seen in the image from architecture and design. Here a load balancer balances the load of each server running the application. To help further for availability a second backup load balancer exists to take over if the primary fails. For scaling the application has not been scaled further than being on 2 servers. It should have been so each server had at least 2 running instances of the application and a corresponding update strategy should have been implemented in the CI/CD pipeline. If it had been implemented the blue-green upgrade strategy would have been implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To increase availability of the system a simple load balancing setup has been made. This can also be seen in the image from architecture and design. Here a load balancer balances the load of each server running the application. To further ensure availability a second backup load balancer exists to take over if the primary fails. The application has not been scaled further than being on 2 servers. While it would have been beneficial to have each server have at least 2 running instances of the application and a corresponding update strategy in the CI/CD pipeline, this was omitted. If it had been implemented this would correspond well with the blue-green upgrade strategy.
```
